Jess Proudfoot  00:00
Stella. Hello. Hi, Stella. Thank you. Hi Stella.

Stella  02:47
Hi Jess. Nice to meet you.

Jess Proudfoot  02:49
Nice to meet you too. How are you?

Stella  02:52
Yeah, all good, all good. Oh, am I a little bit jolty?

Jess Proudfoot  02:56
No, you're right. I had your note taker join, so I wasn't too sure. So I've been on the call and I was like, "Hi, Stella, so you'll see the notes. I was like, "Hi, Stella, I Stella" for a little while, and then you've come in, so your note taker came for you.

Stella  03:09
That's, I think, that's always going to be the case. Do you mind that being on? It's just fine a

Jess Proudfoot  03:16
little bit. Cool, absolutely fine, no problem. So you know my note taker pretty well by now. Should I be sure to know about me? Yes, that'll be good. I've heard bits and bobs obviously through conversations I've had with Alec, and I know that you met with Alec and Jenny a week or two ago. So I'm kind of across obviously bits. Obviously I know of coverage book and bits like that. So I've got a bit of an idea, but it'd be good to go back to the sort of start and hear more about what you're doing now, if possible, please.

Stella  03:47
Yeah, cool. So going right back to the start, I worked at Splendid about 20 years ago, so I've got an invested love there. Yeah, nice. So that's the first thing. Previous to coverage book, so we started coverage book when I was working in an agency about 12 years ago, and I led the PR team within a search and digital marketing agency. So I was one of the first people to start the whole search PR combined strategy measurement thing back in 2009. So it was a long time ago. And then why I'm doing what I'm doing today? But I did start in PR. Obviously, I was at Splendid and H and K before that, so I was traditional PR. Went to digital marketing because of measurement. Actually, I wanted to learn loads about measurement. In fact, I'm jumping around a little bit, but this is relevant. I'll tell you the moment that I decided to leave traditional PR and go, and just for I was only going to go to digital marketing for a short period of time. It was in an all agency meeting at Diageo when I was at Splendid, and we had absolutely smashed all of our KPIs, and but we lost some of our budget to the digital team, and it was purely down to the fact that they just went, they had data. Yeah, they just had data. That's what it was. We had like big coverage. I don't know. It was back in the day. You know, it was a long time ago. But we had big coverage boards, visuals, and we had smashed our coverage volume KPIs. But it wasn't enough to Diageo at that time. And I was just at that moment was like, I just want to know more about how they do that and what it is and analytics and stuff. So that started my journey. But to be honest, it was such a interesting time of Google changing, search changing, reputation starting to change in how people were viewing brands and people. But I stayed in it. But then we made coverage book, and then I loved working with gotten yeah getting the opportunity to work with 1000s of different types of PR teams in house and agencies for a number of years. But since the whole AI search movement, in especially the last 12 months, and working with some of the particularly agency teams and in-house actually at Coverage Book. I was starting to see I want to help them more than what I was able to do at Coverage Book because Coverage Book, as you know, is a reporting tool, and I had to really just sell the reporting tool. But really, I wanted to bring everything like from my past and and just dive into teams and go right. This is how you navigate those different conversations. This is how a search budget holder operates. This is how they work into the board because that's all I did. I was constantly just being placed internally to break down silos, so our agency got bigger budgets. And it feels like now with our opportunity, and especially with what you've learned so much so far. I mean, with gift gap,

Speaker 1  06:45
yeah.

Stella  06:46
What the PR industry is experiencing now, you know, like the PR budget holders are trying to navigate working because they have to now with different areas internally, and PR agencies are trying to navigate their place in that, you know, is it just reporting on the visibility off the back of coverage, or should we go a step further and talk about search behavior, all of that? So that's why I decided this was the time. I was like, no, I've wanted to do this for years. Now's the time.

Jess Proudfoot  07:14
Well, it's funny though because I've always said that if you could get the right sort of measurement tool. Firstly, I always find that any tools that we ever use to be able to try and find coverage is an absolute nightmare, and something always slips through the net, and the client's always then flagging something to you that you haven't got your hands on, which is a nightmare. And just that, if I had a pound for every time now, and more so with Gift Gaff, which, if I'm being honest, is terrifying me. You know what is the commercial value of what we're doing? That never used to be something. Obviously, I know always everything has got to have a commercial value to it, right? The why? Why are you doing it anyway? Why are you investing the budget? But I'm worried. There are lots of articles, obviously, going back a couple years ago, talking about how now PR is going to have its heyday. Watch out the rest of the channels. PR is coming for your budget with LLMs. Like there's all the opportunity. I don't know that's played up much. I know obviously loads of the PR agencies have now got their own tools in which they're developing, and they're obviously winning business that way, which is one of the reasons I want to talk to you as well. But I don't feel that there until now we've started to see some briefs specifically around, you know, is it Leopard and the Remarkables getting Odion and I think bottle have got nationwide or whatever it might be. Now you're starting to see really specific briefs, but it's taken a bloody long time for that to come. I was expecting it this time last year, but I think people have been building their products and now have got the case studies, which is something we don't have. If I'm being brutally honest, I think we are incredibly late to the party. I have said that we need to build something, and I totally understand Alex's reasoning for it. That everyone's building something, we need to have something different. What I'm worried about, what we're building, is still not necessarily, I think, getting to the heart of what we need to for brands, which is we know this is how we need to talk to LLMs. We know that we can get you up the list here. I guess it's just another way of SEO, right? Let's call it what it is. It's just another way of us being able to boost rankings. This is how we can do it. So what I thought would be good is to talk you through where we are with Splendid, which I think you'll know, but you'll have Alex' version. Where I am with Gift Gaff, and where I also want to get to because I've got a new business and marketing remit. I am in charge of new business and marketing for Splendid, as well as the biggest account in the agency, as well as Heater Express, as well as Singapore Tourism Board, as well as many other things. So I really help

Stella  09:38
you. That sounds like a lot.

Jess Proudfoot  09:40
I have a lot. If I'm being honest, I have said that to Alec. He knows I've got a lot, and my worry is, is you know, the only way I can describe it is, you know, you see a fire over there, and you've just put this one out, and I'm desperate to get over there because I can see it's fucking going off. It's it's really getting bigger, but I just can't get to it. I've got Jenny, who you met, who's now on a succumbent at Gifgaff, she was my right hand man on new business and marketing. She's gone for three months. I've got Singapore. I massively need to come into massively because she was doing it, and the client basically said, "Well, great, you know, good luck with your succumbent, Jenny. But Jess, we can't wait for you then to be working day to day with us. And Gift Gaff, I know, has all the opportunity. Hence, why I was really keen to get Jenny the succumbent there. So, anyway, I'm going off on a tangent, but two big things. Also,

Stella  10:27
sorry to jump in, but you want to, you know, that time. Sorry, I don't want to give you more pressure because I am going to help you. But that succumbent could go quite quickly, so you want to like make the most of that opportunity while she's there. Honestly,

Jess Proudfoot  10:40
honestly, so you can see what I'm up against. Let me just close the door. So you know Alec as well as I do, right? Everything is totally doable. Doesn't take any time. It's no problem. We've just spoken about it. Give me an update by the end of the week. That's Alec. So plate some spinning. Let's start off with gift gaff first, because then I do want to get onto new business, and I do want to get onto sort of measurement tools and things that I can start putting in place across the agency. So, gift gaff being on the account, we won the account. I reckon this year it will be a million pound. I've worked hard; like it's taken a lot. I'm sure Alec and Jenny have said to you, like pound of flesh, gift gaff. They are not easy. They're not straightforward. They're typical tech telco brand, but added a layer of new CEO who's come in just before Christmas, reporting into VMO2. So big targets. Her bosses that brought her in have now been part of a restructure of VMO2, and there's a new lady in town called Lisa. What's the surname that will come to me? Ex Pets at Homes, Pets at Home. And my client said to me, I wouldn't want to be left in a room with Kate, CEO, and new Lisa, it's going to be fireworks because they're powerhouses. I get it right. Kate's moved over from America. She's got a point to prove. Like she's taken on this role, and obviously this other woman's coming from Pets at Home after a reshake at Shuffle at VMO2. But there's so much change at foot. So speaking to the creative agency who look after VMO two campaign was meant to go live the following day. It went under Lisa's nose. She's pulled the entire thing. It's not right. Pulled the entire thing. Is that the

Stella  12:31
one? Is that the one that you sent me? The play on. No,

Jess Proudfoot  12:34
that's another one. No, another one. So, this is kind of the world we're in. Everything is don't do this, do this, or don't do this, do that. Everything has got to have a commercial outcome from it, right? So there's this new module we're working to, which I've sent to you, which is this fair play thing, and this is the way in which they want the business to behave and develop their campaigns, because Kate, the CEO, wants Gifgat to be the next Monzo, right? The next Google. What are we doing in your life beyond just your mobile? It's like Monzo now. They're eating our lunch. They're launching into mobile. They're coming for them. They're shitting themselves. Octopus are about to do the same as well. But with Octopus, you've got a bit of a lifestyle thing as well. Like they're really informative when you should put your washing machine on. You know that you're saving. They're really trusted. You don't even need to check your bill. You know if you're with Octopus, you've got fair deal kind of thing. That's where they want to get to. What Kate was worried about when she first came into the business, she specifically said they weren't going to do promos anymore because it was a race to the bottom. It wanted to. She wanted it to be like a value brand, a bit like Octopus. May not be the cheapest, but you know you're going to get shit hot customer service. You know what you're getting with them, and now they're the biggest energy provider with 880 million customers. You know that

Speaker 1  13:52
she's

Jess Proudfoot  13:53
trying to get to that point. So, Octopus, Monzo, Google, all that space. She's come in. It hasn't worked out that way. Lots of change, but they are massively behind their targets, and so now it's becoming promocentric again. It was meant to be about brand building, to be the octopus, to be the Monzo, to be the Google. Let's talk about why people want to keep company with us, and they're thinking about other things they want to get into, like helping people in time financially, so they'll you know do loans or whatever. They'll come after Monzo's lunch as well, and they wanted to become this brand, building brand love a bit like Octopus have. That's now slightly been parked because they are so far behind on their targets. So they went into broadband last year for the first time. That's been really hard for them to get up and running. Again, they haven't been on their targets. I've asked to be added to the latest report, and as soon as I've got these reports, I'll share them with you. I don't know why I've fallen off. Typical, just about speak to you in the past two weeks. I haven't had them. I want to give you the most up to date and recent ones, so you can see where they're tracking as a business, what they want to track at, and then we can have a bit more of an informative, right? Okay, I'm making this up. They need to get their pay monthly sales up by X. They need to get their pay as you go. They need to get. Do you know what I mean? And then we can start crafting as part of our assets. Exactly

Stella  15:12
what we need. Exactly what we need. I mean, because I've already just you know naturally started to dig around just because it's been playing in the back of my mind, and like just adding, seeing how they're doing on different searches that I think that might be important to them, but it's you need that information, and that's that's why I asked you the question about the refurb because yes, I saw refurb brief

Jess Proudfoot  15:35
is just in, just in. Did I send it to you? No, not yet. Right, let me send it to you. I

Stella  15:42
just no, no, send it. Yeah, because I I saw that the head of search. Have you signed an

Jess Proudfoot  15:47
NDA with Alec?

Stella  15:49
No, this is no. This is this is probably very important for this kind of thing because he doesn't know how I'm going to be working with you yet, and I guess you can inform some of this after this call. I sent a proposal of what I think the agency needs and how I could maybe support Jenny, but I hadn't spoken to you. So yeah, I think we need

Jess Proudfoot  16:12
to. If I'm being really honest, and I'm going to be really honest now, I was talking to Rick before a bit, and I know you know Rick. I think you used to work with him or something. I

Stella  16:22
hired him into my team at Propellant.

Jess Proudfoot  16:26
Right. So he's kind of been coached by you. So when we first pitched for Gift Gaff, he gave a certain number for the value of if we did something, what it was going to mean for the value for the business, and I think it was on refurb devices. I have to dig it out for you, and there'd be loose conversations around trying to get Rick to help with LLMs because they know that they need to, yeah, essentially spend a bit more budget and a bit more time on it. We were told that internally they had a task force; they were called a task force being assembled to be able to specifically look at this and how they were going to start talking into LLMs, content teams, and whatever else, I've heard nothing since. All I keep hearing from my clients, who's head of comms, is if you can show me the commercial value, then I can understand why we can put budget behind it. If you can show me, you know, a bit like I could take that money that you're asking for, Jess, and I can go and spend it with influencers, get a code, and I can immediately see, obviously, what we're getting on the back of it. And she knows PR doesn't necessarily work like that, but it does when it comes to obviously, yeah.

Stella  17:32
So rather than sort of dive into a revenue potential model, which can be quite cool in pitches and impressive. What I feel like would be a good approach is almost just to demonstrate how you're going to transform the way that you're reporting to them, and yeah, almost acting more as a performance earned performance agency. And we're going to be sharing this kind of data with you, which I can take you through in a little bit. This is the PR activity, and this is how we're tracking that. And we're going to constantly optimize it based on the results of this, which is then affecting LLMs and your search visibility. And this is how we're going to be operating now. But you have a really experienced search team there, so based on this, we'd love to be working closely with them, so they can give us the priority areas of the business or what priority products we should be feeding into our creative and performance. Yes,

Speaker 1  18:30
I think

Stella  18:31
other what's just so I just because I think sometimes if you try and do the job of the search team, which is like that kind of model that Rick did, fantastic. Like to be honest, that's not my. I hired Rick to do that kind of stuff. I want strategy and measurement. I'm not going to sit here and do one of those for you. But I just don't think that that's particularly needed. If you try and sort of go against a really successful search, especially she's doing talks at Brighton SEO. She's like very proud of her search team. The best thing to do is just work closely with them and and show that how you're going to be making their life easier and and and showing being much more transparent in the the data that you are pulling in from your PR activity and how it nudges all of these different areas and talk their language, then they're going to be more likely to go. Oh, brilliant! This is a breath of fresh air. Kind of been waiting for this kind of reporting. Now here's the information you need.

Jess Proudfoot  19:32
Though where we are doing proposals, really speaking into it specifically and showing the value when we come to do the proposal. So because what I'm worried about is, and again, just being really open with you, PR doesn't get anywhere near as much budget as with every business as the other channels. In fact, we get so little by comparison. But then every time it's a question of, well, what's PR doing? What's PR doing? And as a client, it's becoming quite wearing. If I'm being honest, like she doesn't have much budget, but she she scrutinizes every bloody pounds. It's a lot. I've had other clients. Well, of course I've had other clients, but other clients don't scrutinize in quite the same way she does. But that's because she's got so little budget. But the expectation is so big, and so I guess what I also want to do with you is in the refurb response, I really want to be able to show. Okay, not only did we hold our own with the summer campaign with the different agencies, we came up with kind of the platform, the campaign, all the rest of it. But I want to show in working with us and us getting more of the budget that should or could have been otherwise going to, you know, MG, we can prove that it's worthwhile spending with us because you could see an uplift in this or an uplift in that, and there's different ways in which they want to measure it. Like we know they want to do more events, for example, because they don't have any shop fronts and no one ever really knows that there exists. So they're always keen to do that, and that's one of their yeah major things they wanted to do as a business. But I want to layer on top of that to also show okay, but if we specifically do a targeted campaign through this with LLMs and something something something that we can show you also that we can get this. So I know it's a bit of the SEO stuff, and I don't want to butt heads with them or say we're going to do their job, but I want to prove the value of us even more if we can and and to unlock additional budget.

Stella  21:20
Yeah, so I've been working on a framework that looks at sort of your earned performance and how it affects those two areas. So Google search, but also the LLMs, and then the next layer, how they then nudge, how all of it then nudges to the outcomes of commercial performance. So when I say you don't want to do their job, I mean is their their business priorities. So like a revenue potential model will help a business decide what their priority will be when they don't know. So when you when we were working really closely as a a very trusted search partner to big brands, and we were working internally with them. We would do one of those kind of revenue potential models when they said, "Well, loads of products and areas of the business are a priority. We don't know which one to focus on, and then we would do that kind of thing. So what I mean by that is, you know, we can still help them. You know, the reason why I asked you about refurb is because I did some search visibility and LLM visibility based on some of the areas and their products, and that was a glaring area which they have really low visibility on LLMs for refurb. But she was talking about it being a success in SEO, so I was like, that seems obvious that you should be stepping in there, and then lo and behold, you said that a brief was coming in. So it's a match. Do you know what I mean? So yeah, we can we can start. I can show if your team isn't doing that kinds of checking and insight already. We can just start that straight away. It's pretty easy to do.

Jess Proudfoot  22:57
What I want to do is, and this is me being again really transparent. I think I'm always like this. Will probably tell you maybe share too much, but I want to use their budget to help set this up for the agency, which then will produce the case studies we need for me. Then on my next my other hat, be able to go out on case studies and through you know PR Week opinion pieces or whatever else. Boom! This is what we offer at Splendid, and so when there's other briefs being chucked around because of you know GEO visibility and all the rest of it, we're in the mix. We are not in the mix at all at the moment. We are not even. No one thinks of

Stella  23:32
us. Yeah, we should definitely do that, and it is a perfect opportunity just to get going straight away and having that case study immediately. But I mean, I could even walk. We could probably get a framework together for you to start talking about as an agency and in new business straight away, anyway, before you even get post study for Gift Girth.

Jess Proudfoot  23:52
Me being completely honest, and I'm worried. When I was talking to Alec about this, he mentioned Splendid Mind to you.

Stella  24:00
The Splendid Mind.

Jess Proudfoot  24:01
Yeah.

Stella  24:03
No. No. We talked about it potentially being like a cultural impact version two or something like that. Is that the same thing?

Jess Proudfoot  24:11
Yeah. Right. Yeah. So right. Splendid Mind was developed by a guy called James, and this is where there's so many different people now putting in the mix, and I kind of just want to stop a second. Who's doing what to enable the agency to go forward in various things? Because it's getting quite confused. So I'm really keen to work with you. I don't know what that looks like with Rick. If Rick's involved at all, or if he's not at all. I don't really care if I'm being really blunt. I want to make sure that we've got something where we are able to go out to gift gaff immediately as part of this refurb response and anything else as well. Saying you're missing a trick here, Tara. Look, if you could free up some budget, we're suggesting you spend it in this way because if we did this, you'd see an increase in that. What's happened? Sorry, just give you more context, and then I'll go on to the different chefs and Splendid Mind. Gift Gaff came to us initially. It was a press office account, and it was quite small with some campaigns. What happened is she got headcount, and in fact, Callie, that used to work at Splendid, has now got the gig in house to do press office. But by press office, what I mean is she punts out a promo alert to the usual tech media, and they'll say, "Okay, now Gift Gaff's doing unlimited data for 14 pounds a month, or full fiber for a fiver, or whatever. Right? There's that, and then we just do these bigger campaigns. We've grown the account. It's been great. It's been really hard this year. It's been brutal, but we've grown the account. Hopefully, by the end of the year, it could be a million pound account, which is great. But I need to free up some more budget pots for that to become a reality, and I see LLMs and being able to talk to them and doing this job that I've just said is the biggest opportunity to be able to do that. So that that's gift gaff, and when I say press office, what I mean by that, in as much as she should do the punting out. If I could say, look, you're missing this always on strand. If we set this up, we can prove that through your deals or through your added extras. Like for example, if someone's searching, I want a really good mobile network. I travel to Europe quite often, but don't want to be stung with roaming fees. I'm making this up. Do you know what I mean? How people are now shopping. GiftGAF comes up because it says actually you get X number of countries. Are you roaming free? And you get one gigabyte landing data. None of that's happening.

Stella  26:27
No, the thing is, it's so important for 20 to 30 year olds as well. Like I, I went out and looked through the Play On proposal.

Jess Proudfoot  26:34
Yeah,

Stella  26:35
looks really cool. But I was just a little bit like, did 20 and 30 year olds really want to go onto branded content and stay there. Like they're gonna be in they're definitely in AI search asking really long form prompts all of the time. So I mean I was like that's a big chunky budget to go into full branded content, and I know that's important, but I feel like they could be getting that sort of customer engagement that they're desperate for by and building almost the community first where they are and then bringing them in once they're trans they're trusted because they are all over the LLMs asking for the answering the right kinds of questions for that age group. That feels like the stronger route to go.

Jess Proudfoot  27:19
Your health debate to be able to show them what could be and get the budget from them to service it, but stop it. And this would be a separate proactive brief that we are basically getting them to find the cash for. I have got Narissa, head of advertising's ear. I have got Lisa, head of go to market. I get on really well with them. If I could say to Tara, let me jump on a call with you and talk you through this rear, even head of social if I need to, I think we can make it happen. So that's the first thing. Second thing, we've already spoke about refurb. You know about that. It's a massive opportunity. They want to go hard with it. They basically said, look, got three agencies. One that comes with the best idea, we'll run with kind of thing, which is a bit unfair. And we've kind of said to them, "Look, you can't do that. It's what they did in the summer. But we came up with a platform, and we've led the charge, and we've earned a serious, you know, bit of fee to do it. I need to do the same again on refurb. So I'll share that brief with you. I'll get an NDA over to you. I'll have to do it the wrong way round. I'll get the brief to you, and then I'll get the NDA to you. Can you then send me the NDA backside, please? Just so you got that. And then the other bit is what you've just touched on there. So they are doing this. What they're wanting to do is, as I say, create more content. They feel by creating more content this long form and giving people access to events. We did a broadband boss academy event. I don't know if you heard about it, if Alec mentioned it or not. No, no, no, fine, don't worry. I just I want to say something a lot. I really know about it, and then I'm.

Speaker 2  28:53
No, no, go on.

Jess Proudfoot  28:54
Right. So what they wanted to do is they want more content because they want to be this brand that you get more with, right? So again, this Monzo thing, like we can help out your finances. We can help you better spend more time with your family because through the backgrounds we could do this. We'll share tips. We'll do whatever. A bit like I think it was nationwide. We were teaching older people how to use AI or whatever it is of certain brands. You know what I mean? Online banking. They want to be that, but for the youth, they want to be able to show that they can enhance them with skills and whatever else. So this was before that all became quite clear. But we had a brief for broadband, launched their broadband 24 month product. We came up with the idea that we wanted to do the broadband boss academy. Essentially, what that was, it was three creators: DJ AG, Lucy Bose, and PyFace, who have all made their careers using access to internet, right? Streaming. She's like Forbes under 30. Pie Face was like a McDonald's manager, and now's like earning six figures from doing what he loves, right? So it was a great way to get people in front of them and to hear through Gift Gaff how they might be able to better themselves, and that's what Gifgav wants to do more of. So the roundabout way I'm saying this is, the more content or the more advice or the more that we can try and speak, as you're saying, to the youth, which you've seen the kind of audience they want, will be music to their ears. So I think between us, you and I can almost think, right, okay, for the minute we've got three things on our plate, right? This is you talking to me, Jess. We know refurb's massive the brief sim. We know we've got to speak to LLMs. They're massively missing out an opportunity there, but also we know that they're wanting to do more content, do more of these events. How can we maximize what they're doing? So, for example, they're at Formulary this month. Don't ask me why; it's a bit of a weird one. But they're a formulary, and their whole idea is that they're trying to be a B Corp. I don't know quite how they're working it, but there's a narrative we need to come up with. They're then going to work with Luce FM again. Not quite sure why they've chosen these guys. Music people that are underrepresented, sort of music roots, but they're very small by comparison to other initiatives. You know how big Splendid is in music and doing things like that. They do work with big issue, so it's like, how can we maximize the partnerships and the work they're doing, and taking that and then pumping it through, you know, LLMs and stuff. Like I'm making this up. If someone said, "Oh, want to find out the best way for me to be able to I don't know launch a something career stuff would come up from Gift Gaff that is that content advising like I know we're away off that's where they want to get to so that Gift Gaff then is a brand they want to be a part of.

Stella  31:34
There's lots of dots to join up there. Ultimately, there feels like the big missing part is some extensive search research and and prompt research and all of the fan out ones off of the back of that and making a huge like map of all of those different things that are related to their priority areas like the reverb and whatever else. Yeah, and that is like the big missing piece because then that will show like the opportunity, then what I would then feed into anyone coming up with creative is okay, and these are the priority areas that need the content. So yeah, there's going to be like some owned content stuff there, which is going to be like there's going to make them happy, and if it's anything they've got existing, it's going to work great. But there's also going to be the big prioritized list of the sites that you need to be getting onto, whether it's Reddit, whether it's particular media sites, whether it's particular influencers that are the ones that are going to be powering the the missing gaps on the particular LLMs that because they all have different methodologies and they all use different citations to be feeding them. So we need to do. There's a big sort of insight and strategy part there to fill where the missing gaps are. So then I would like feeding like, okay, you need to be get. We need to content on this type of content and this this kind of sites. Okay, now the part that you just said, they've got these partnerships, they've got this content. Are there any dots that we can connect there as quick wins and low-hanging fruit? Yeah, brilliant. We can use that for that. And then, do we need to come up with any other creative to generate some more content that will go onto these other sites? That's like how the the kind of linear strategy works.

Jess Proudfoot  33:20
Done the first bit yet. I don't know if they've done it in house. We have asked repeatedly, and I was told there was a task task force doing it. So I guess my question back to you is: Do we do this anyway to realize it ourselves to then inform what? Do you see what I'm saying? Because I don't know if they've already got that.

Stella  33:40
Yeah, they they they may well do. I think the the media the media part and the prioritization part they would expect an earned or a PR agency to be to be informing them on that. Yeah, they well may know it as well. But I think what I found when I was first trying to knock on the doors of departments that maybe aren't my exact budget holder, but I needed to work with them. Whether that was the data team or the search team, or sometimes it was the PR team, and I was coming from the SEO way. It's like showing what you're gonna. The opening conversation is not, I need something from you. It's like this is what we're gonna do, and this is the framework that we're going to use, and this is what you can expect to get from us on a weekly basis in terms of insight and data on on the activity that we're driving. And the goal is to get you higher visibility in X, Y, and Z. The missing part from us is this really specific bit of insight. Can you help with that? Do you have that? And if you're talking their language, they're gonna like straight away go, oh, okay. Well, it sounds like you're gonna be. We're all gonna be working on the same thing here. If you right, rather than just like, can you send us what your latest stuff is? I mean, I know that just from having agencies from the coverage book side, I was a bit when people would be like, "Can we have access to analytics? Like, why? No. What are you going to do with it? And it would just be a straight no. And I, I was like that, even though I'd been on the other side so many times. But if someone had said, like, we're trying to solve this problem, and we're just missing this tiny bit of information to solve this problem, and if this problem is going to help you with X, Y, and Z, oh, brilliant, yeah, I'll help you that because it's going to benefit me. So I think that's the that's where I can help because I can. It's just sometimes it's a language thing, but also we can show them a very top level in one image, the framework that we can be that they can have access to the the dashboard that they can have access to if they want to, especially if it's achieving some goals like improving visibility.

Jess Proudfoot  35:47
So, what's first step then? Because I think I've got a couple of things that are whirling around in my head. First things first, I know I've got this refurb brief which we need to respond to, and all I keep hearing from Tara is, if we can prove the the value of it, we can unlock pots. So, what's the first stage of it? What can I do to ensure that when we respond, I've got a Q and A with them, the client on Thursday morning from 11 till 12. What is I should start getting my hat hands on or starting to get my head around, and how can we then use that maybe as a bit of a test pilot bit to be able to work out how we can then get more in. Yeah. What are we doing then separately alongside that? Then maybe when it comes to press office, I know they want to pump their promos out hard. They need to get sales up big time. Is there a project in us saying, look, we know. For example, I know Black Friday's promos galore. We could do a massive piece helping you that sits alongside the press office activity that you're already doing that Carly's pumping out. We could do this for you. It's a layer on. I don't know, but what's first steps? What do you think's possible to unlock budget and start getting briefs in?

Stella  36:59
Sounds like the refurb project is the best opportunity. I would just be careful with the shoe hauling some of the other ones, like what, because you. I don't know how big a team you've got, but you don't want to spread yourselves too thinly when you and miss the opportunity with refurb. She's literally said that sentence to you that she it can unlock budget. You know, it might be that we can. Yeah, I don't know. That I just like I thought it when I was reading the the play on one. It's like okay, yeah, it'd be great to send some stuff there, but is it actually going just by helping support their thing? Is it definitely going to unlock more budget? Because is it really answering the objective of what you're trying to do? Increase visibility in LLMs. It might be, but it would it would take a bit of shoehorning. Do you know what I mean? Because if you think it's

Jess Proudfoot  37:54
going to take shoehorning, no. But I think my only thing is if the younger audience which they're targeting, is using LLM so much to be able to shop now. Like I know, for example, I sometimes say, you know, what are the best deals for Prime? Rather than even going through fucking Amazon, because I haven't got, I can't be asked with it. You know, I want to know what are the best deals that I could be looking for. Same with Black Friday, like what the best phones or whatever. So I guess probably two things that stands out for me then is refurb is a given. We know that we want to work on that together. How can we best do that to make sure that we can show them that we're across it and the value of the work or campaign we come up with? But then also alongside that, how can I also say that whilst this is refurb, you've also got a layer here of all the other activity that you've got going on that we could be fueling LLMs. Yeah,

Stella  38:38
yeah, and the like you said, Black Friday can just be part of that messaging. Like some of that stuff can just be part of the messaging. But I think we need to work. Yeah, be good. We decide how I guess we work together. How you want me to work? Because it's I can say, oh yeah, I could do this, I could do that. But it depends on how you want me to work with you and what that sort of partnership looks like. I don't want to say that I can

Jess Proudfoot  39:06
do. I think, and I'd have to run this by Alec. I think, and I don't know whether or not this would be allowed, that I introduce you as a team member at Splendid who's working on specifically this kind of work, and we're doing this now as part of what we're doing with Refu, with the view that we can help Black Friday and almost you sit in a room with us. But I don't know if that's how you work with agencies. I don't know if that's something that would work for you.

Stella  39:30
It's not. I I actually put in my proposal that I would mentor somebody because I think I was originally thinking that I would come in, help set up frameworks and move away. But to be honest, the more I'm hearing about gift gap and it being very present, I don't think we've got time for me to to mention. This is my

Jess Proudfoot  39:49
problem. That sounds all for me to say. I would love for you to mentor someone. I definitely could find people that you'd be able to do that with. I don't. I see the clock's ticking. It's that's that's a long term goal, and I would love for that to happen immediately. Now, if I'm being blunt, we've got to get the cash in on gift gaff. We need to make sure we secure the briefs. And what I'm worried about, and I'm not saying this is going to happen, but I am worried that unless we are showing that we could do it, there could well be a brief that goes out specifically to an agency to do just that.

Stella  40:20
Exactly. I think that's probably. I think it's a very relevant fear. Like learning about. I forgot the name. Was it Laura, the the search woman that I mentioned? I haven't got her name in front of me. Lisa.

Jess Proudfoot  40:35
Was it Laura? Who's? There's Helena. Helena. Helena. No, Helena. Yeah, she's the one that's the one. Yeah,

Stella  40:43
I'd be surprised if she's not sending out LNM briefs out to people like Rise at Seven and people like that. I'll be surprised, but that doesn't that doesn't mean that we can't get in there now. And I do think that I think I said this right at the beginning of the phone call. Often it is a language that yes, you need to have like show that you're going to have a certain dashboard and measurement framework, and you're going to have all the strategy in place. 100% we can put that all in. But often it is about the conversation and the language initially to win their trust and to just open the door. I don't

Jess Proudfoot  41:18
godding me. I can't speak the language at the moment. Yes, if you get the mental me, I'd love that for you to be able to coach me, and then I can coach the team. I'll get my head around it. I'll do any amount of reading. I'm hungry for it. That doesn't bother me. But right now, right now, knowing the business and the position they're in and the opportunity that is there, it's that fire I'm describing. It is there. I can see it. I can't get to it, and I need to. And if the quickest way for us to be able to do that, if it's not normally the way that you like to work and it's a bit annoying, but I'd love to be able to get you in the room and just say, look, can I get Stella on a call? Because

Stella  41:53
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Let's let's do that. I think the fact is, is that as I said right beginning, I've got a love for Splendid, and I want to work for Splendid. I would actually like to work for Splendid on a like a longer term. Like I've kept, I've actually since I first met Alec. Just I had an announcement in in Provoke, and I've had I've joined two clients since then. But I've protected time because I do want to have this as like a long, more of a longer term relationship.

Jess Proudfoot  42:24
This is it because that this leads me on to my next point. Because I'm conscious of time of end. What's 20 minutes left? So, if with Gift Gaff, I can start like working out time with you, and we can start. I think what I need to do is one of two things. As part of this refurb brief, we need to respond with your work as part of it.

Stella  42:45
Yeah,

Jess Proudfoot  42:45
to to to to get the campaign unlocked, so to speak. I will need to use the planning budget we will charge as an agency to pay for your time. That that's what it's going to be, right? I'm just being really honest. Just because again, I just I think it's the best way of being. I will bill your time back to Gifgaf in order for us to be able to respond to this brief and make sure that we can show them the value. If we were to do this right, what that would mean. That would also mean that you could then join the calls and be a part of some of it and hear what people are saying in order for us to be able to then lock that with the view that while we're working on that, there's bigger conversations to be had to be said. Right, okay, and you're speaking the language again. I can get Helena on a call with us. That's not a problem. I've asked Harris to arrange that. You know, where are you on certain things? And then again, that's something else that you'd be working sort of white labelish for Splendid. And then as we start to go on, as with everything, you know, I don't want to be in the weeds of gift gaffer all my life. Fucking hell, I can't wait to get out. There will be a time when you'll be able to come out as well because the team would be mentored up to do it. But I think it's going to have to be alive and direct on the job because of the urgency of this. With the view that once people are up and running, you come out of it a bit more, and then there's something else that we need to do with Splendid,

Stella  44:02
yeah, makes sense. And I think that it will, it the whole sort of agency. I don't know the other work that you're doing on the proposition, but I feel like this will feed a lot of it. Honestly, like once you have a framework set up for Gifgaf and you start to see what it means to really track PR activity and optimize it based on what it's actually doing to someone's visibility stuff. Your proposition will write itself because you'll be like, because I have I'm have access to know what is truly going on at many agencies. Like I'm working, even though I am not working with all of them right now. I worked with every single large and medium-sized agency in their coverage book, so I know what they're doing in terms of measurement, and I know really what's under the bonnet. So as much as you know, you have your your fears of like what people are doing, and it's definitely in everyone's proposition. The big piece that's missing is, and as much as everyone is learning so much more about the LLM's methodology and and how to affect it and be more visual, that what the piece that's missing is like the performance part. So the way that other areas of digital marketing they're called performance because it's so transparent and optimizing the performance and the activity, and the clients are involved in that. How PR agencies work is so like retrospective in the way that they show results. It's like, okay, trust us with this this budget. Yeah, you need to be doing it live

Jess Proudfoot  45:35
as it's happening because then you're changing things and adapting to make it work harder. Yeah, I hear you.

Stella  45:41
That's the missing piece, and the only way to do that is by really setting up a framework of data on on what the activity is, how it's performing, and there's different lines of how you can do that. And it's a really big missing piece. I did a talk at Amec about it in June in Dublin, and I had the best measurement people coming up to me afterwards and went, oh my God, you've just like found the the missing piece. Like everyone's jumping ahead to how you measure search and LLM, but there's no like layers of evidence to show what was driving that and how to optimize it. So that it seems so obvious sometimes. Like, oh yeah, we track sentiment. We track whether there was a brand mention. We track activity, but it's not to the to the level that you need to, and the consistency of that tracking. Because then you have consistency of that tracking, and then you the data builds a picture. You start to correlate things like, okay, well we had really good brand prominence in that line of activity, and had really good engagements. We didn't have such good engagements in this line of activity, and the brand prominence was all okay. But what it did do was drive X, Y, and Z. You've got to be tracking that kind of level on a week-to-week basis. That's the language that they're used to, and that's what PR is missing, and that's what I think that we can build as an example with Gift Gaff. And then, like I say, I think your agency proposition will write itself after you're doing that.

Jess Proudfoot  47:09
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Because even that's

Stella  47:12
truly like earns first, you know. Like otherwise, what earned first performance was something that Alec kept saying. It's like you've got to be tracking that.

Jess Proudfoot  47:22
Okay, let me let me get that going then with refurb and my account. My other bit, just to throw a bit of a spam in the works, is I'm off for two weeks in August. I'm off from week commenced in the 17th. Okay, for two weeks, which makes me nervous because we're meant to be. You

Stella  47:37
handed this account over to me.

Jess Proudfoot  47:40
You're off the hook in that respect. No, there's Fiona. She's an amazing ASD. She's fine. We've got Fran, our creative director. It's more that I would like to be on the journey with you right the way through. But it's just a heads up. I'm out those two weeks. But that having been said, I'll try and make sure that the diary allows for me to be around as much as possible to be able to do The responses they aren't too quick out the block skiff gaff. They can be quite slow, which can be really painful as well. So anyway, it's just a heads up on that. So the next bit I just wanted to talk about really quickly, and I don't know whether or not it's at all relevant to you, but I think it is because this is the we've got a structure we work to. It's called Count. You would have seen on the website the Tangible Impact is obviously what we're talking about today. With everything that we're doing, what's the knock-on effect? How is it actually doing what? What is it doing that we actually need to be able to spit back to our clients and why they're paying us in the first place? Splendid Mind is an AI tool that's been created by this guy called James. He's an advisor to Alec, and it's meant to be able to help feed ideas that would be good for a campaign, like thought starters, taking lots of other campaigns, the things that have happened. That is something that is being worked on. So there is a point two version of it. The reason why I'm flagging it to you is also as part of it. I would love for us to be able to give it campaigns have done really well from an LLM point of view because obviously then it will shape ideas and things that people should be thinking about baking into their campaigns to make sure that the T of count, the tangible impact, is going to work. It's one thing being creative, and that's great. And I know we need to be creative as an agency. We don't want to dull it down. Sorry, dump it down too much, just talking to LLMs. But that is the way of the world now, and we've kind of got to make sure we're talking their language. To your point, so the reason why flagging it is, I do think it would be worthwhile for you, me, Alec, this guy James, to be on this call to talk about this tool and what it needs to be in order for it to be what is this thing that Splendid owns and is really exciting. Where the Romans have got oh my god, what's it called? It's gone out my head, you know what I'm talking about.

Stella  50:02
Serpent,

Jess Proudfoot  50:04
serpent, and there's loads of other agencies got loads of other tools. Our tool is called Splendid Mind, and the idea is just that. It's meant to come up with creative thought starters. It's meant to give you stories and things that would be great for you to be able to then craft and shape in order for you to make tangible impact. Now, some clients might say they just want number one share of voice. Some clients might say that they want to have recall. All the things you already know, you know it better than me. I think we're fast becoming a point where people actually just want to fucking have it right at the top of the LLMs. Where are we all the time? And you're asking about various things, low and no alcohol, whatever. Do you know what I mean? Whatever it might be, top things to buy for a you know a picnic. Top things to do when you're holding a housewarming party. I'm planning my wedding. Give me 10 top. Like I know it sounds so ridiculous and broad, but

Stella  50:50
no, no. I mean to be honest with the the creativity point. Um, I I sometimes my best friend is Steve Strickland. Do you know Steve Strickland. He was he's he was the founder of Talker Taylor Troublemaker, and now he's at Havas. Yes. Oh my God. Yes. Yeah. Global creative. Me and him like fall out like over wine quite a lot with this kind of thing because he hates people like me coming in and saying the the idea has to be like this about this, and it could be so boring. But my God, like when I was, I increased our it wasn't just me. My team increased PropellerNet's agency revenue by 85% and that was through the most boring categories ever. Like with M and S, it was like we did that revenue potential model, and it's like oh yeah they may well be doing a new England team suit launch and that's lovely but it's not going to make them money what makes them money is pajamas and slippers

Jess Proudfoot  51:52
school stuff I'm sure as well exactly yeah yeah

Stella  51:56
unfortunately and so I was like yeah team yeah all right we we're going to do a little bit of support for the suits because it will get us some of the big DA stuff, and that's what I was saying about earlier. It's like, yeah, you can do a little bit because you might get a couple of bit, you know, links on a couple of big DAs through that kind of stuff. But it, but ultimately, you're gonna have to create shitloads of content about slippers and every type of question that there could possibly be about slippers for this age group, and you're going to have to go hard for that, and you're going to have to do that for 12 months because it's going to make us loads of money, and it's going to make them loads of money, you know. So that's what I

Jess Proudfoot  52:35
can do with mobile device, Stella. I do think they're that like not being funny. If it is again, biggest problem with gift gap: one in one out, one in one out, one in one out. They are so they can't return, right? Golden handcuffs, things of the past, and they're trying to think about ways through what I'm just discussing with you that gives the value add that people want to say. Like octopus, you don't worry about your fucking bill. You just know you're paying all right, and you're going to get a good level of service. That's all they want to get to. So there's that level of boringness which we need. Alec isn't too far from him. If I'm being honest, he was always worried that we'd be dumbing down and taking the creative out of it. But the but is unless we can prove that you should be spending money with us, the creative won't get paid for. They need the bread and butter to help you all the time. For as long as their big earners aren't being looked after, they won't have the sparkle. What we do is the sparkle. They need the the bread and butter shit to be carried off. Do you know what I mean? That's what I'm trying to say.

Stella  53:28
Be the agency that does both. And do you know what? You've got to have you've got to be really creative to come up with something for boring slippers. Do you know what I mean? And I'm sure you guys would be able to do that better than my old agency. That was the thing. It was like, oh, just kind of like we're we're coming up to blocks of like, what else could we do for some of these categories? Yeah. So you need both, and I think that like with this kind of solid foundation of insight, and then the bazaars of the creative. But yeah, I'm coming away from your first point about the about the tech. Be good to hear more. I just think I need to get on a call with

Jess Proudfoot  54:05
you. I need to get a call with you with Alec and James in the room because what I'm worried about, if I'm being honest, with all the plates I'm spinning, I've got gift gaff. We could really, as I say, I keep using the analogy. It's a fire. I need to get to it. As you say, Helena, they're doing RFPs. Like for example, I didn't realize they were doing a massive RFP for long form content. We should have been in the mix. We can fucking do that with our eyes closed. We're not in there, so I want to start getting in sooner rather than later because next minute, how I was going to say, "Oh, don't worry, they've appointed an agency to look after this, and I'll be fuming. I will be fuming. I've been banging on about this for so long. I've been banging on about it, so I want to get in there sharpish. And then, as part of that, this spended minds bit. If we're doing another version of it, which it sounds like we are, which is going to give you know people really excited ideas, but also do the bread and butter bit, we need to all get in the room and talk about a bit of the press office boring, you know, what sexy way of dressing up slippers. But then, what's the bigger campaign bit? And we need to show that we can do both. We don't.

Stella  55:05
So you're saying that with the with the tool, the creative mind is that the or spend mind? Sorry, is that to use for gift gap or is it just for the? No, it's an agency.

Jess Proudfoot  55:19
Yeah. So basically, what happened is it launched, and it was meant to be that we've got this splendid mind-a great way for us to be able to come up with really cool campaign ideas for our clients, right? And then we use the way in which it works: count the CEO, the U, the N, and the T to then spit back how we are making conversations that count. But splendid minds coming up with first thoughts for it. That that's that was the idea. What we did is we then gave access to prospective clients to be able to access Splendid Mind Light that was on our website. They could put a brief in, and then it would come back with some thought starters or whatever. But for me, it was always missing the bit. If you did this and did this again, your point, or I think where I'd like it to be able to get to, this is an area in which your business isn't doing so well in. If you focus on these three areas, you could see this for a tangible impact. Do you see what I'm trying to say?

Stella  56:14
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, yeah, it'll be good. It's all a concept of PR, and I don't

Jess Proudfoot  56:19
think people want that anymore? They don't want that. It's like that's lovely. Yeah, you can get Thierry Henry or anyone or fucking Bepe or Messi. All of them doing massive campaigns for you. Those days, I think, are a bit over now. They want to know. Okay, that means traffic to website is going to go up. It's going to be a sellout MPD. It's going to be. It's. Do you know what I mean? It's not about volume of coverage. It hasn't been for a while.

Stella  56:42
No, no, it's got to be a system of evidence of how you are writing blood. Exactly, that's it. So, actually, from the back

Jess Proudfoot  56:51
of this, then I'm going to send you the refurb brief and the NDA, please. I'm going to work out next steps. I've got to put a Q and A together. I would love for you to be able to, if you can, put some initial questions. What I will then do is I will lock in planning budget with Gift Gaff. Can you give me an indicative budget or an idea of what it would cost to have you on the journey to help do some planning with us? Because I'm essentially going to try and pass that cost on to Gift Gaff, being completely transparent in order for us to get this up and running. And then I think it's a separate conversation for us to have, which is the bigger, splendid one. Which

Stella  57:25
is, it's lovely

Jess Proudfoot  57:26
that we can have this tool. But while you've got Serpent and all the others, given what you know about Under the Carbon It and how much of it's working or not, how, from a new business point of view, whilst I'm trying to work on the case study for Gift Gaff to prove that we can do it, what am I also saying from an AI product point of view, that's going to make people excited, so we can end up landing briefs with whoever because they want to increase their visibility on AI or GO and all these other fucking briefs that are coming through.

Stella  57:55
I know the truth about how much of those tools are being used internally and how much it is just pulling people in. It is different for different agencies. I've got three examples. One that's kind of the actual digital PR agency, search agency. One that you've the name that you've already mentioned.

Jess Proudfoot  58:14
Romans, Romans or Leopard.

Stella  58:18
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm I know Lucy really well. Okay. As a strategy, and then the other one is like I'll just be honest with you. This is like an NDA little bottle person as well. I know like how yeah challenges that they have. Obviously, they're a completely different agency, but they have their own set of AI tools, and it's like huge for them to actually be using the tools. You know, some of the other ones are a little bit just a PR front. Because ultimately, like, there's it's hard. I've come from a tech background. You know, like it's hard to build a tool that's really way better than everything anything else out there. Like, why would you? Why would you not do the best job and get the best insight you truly can by using tools which have dedicated teams that are working on it 24/7 to be the best tool.

Jess Proudfoot  59:08
I think we netted out. If I'm being honest, I think we got to a point where we were like, "Why are we trying to take on people where it's their bread and butter? It's a bit like now saying that we want to be, you know. If I'm being honest, yes, we do social. We're not as good as a dedicated fucking social agency, because that is what they sleep, eat, drink, shit. Like it's it's their thing, and so whilst I want to be part of the conversations, and it could be nice to be under one roof, hence why people are picking up. But I go onto the Remarkables website, and I'm gobsmacked. You'd never imagine in a million years that they're picking up briefs like this. It doesn't scream that at all.

Stella  59:41
It's because it's leopards. They've got a deal with leopard.

Jess Proudfoot  59:45
Yeah, I saw that. So they are working with her, and that's why they've picked up the two that they have. But

Speaker 1  59:50
yeah,

Jess Proudfoot  59:50
it's like yeah. But then it could that be something that we're working with you, and you help to pick up the deals. That's what I'm trying to get to. What what is it for us?

Stella  1:00:00
I think just yeah, we'll work together and we'll see. But I think, like you said, like it's if you want to be earned performance, then just start working on that. Like the whole tech thing, if it, I would see it more as part of a a product of yeah, coming. You can put in your your issue and we will do a review, and then we will come back to you. Whether that's using your own built tech, or whether it's using your your collective minds and expertise, but you turn it around quite quickly because it could be great for a new business or or a new area of an existing client. Are they trying to get me out of this room? I've got one more minute. Yeah. So, but yeah, I just yeah, I just think don't try and become a software as a service business because it's not what you are. You're a fantastically creative and perform. You're going to be performance agency. But yeah, I'm not poo-pooing it at all. I think it's great because it does show your creativity when I read about it. But how the mechanics of it and how it works and how you promote it, I think yeah, to be discussed maybe if.

Jess Proudfoot  1:01:15
Okay, let me send the NDA. Let me send a refurb brief to you. Will you then come back to me then on what it would be cost-wise, just to be a part of that journey with us, please, to get to the point where we've written the proposal with that weave in as to how we think we can obviously talk their language and deliver, and then I will get that, yeah, paid ideally.

Stella  1:01:38
Will do. I'm just being chucked out this room. Yeah, no. There

Jess Proudfoot  1:01:41
you go. There you go. I'll send it all over to you now. Thanks, Stella. Really appreciate it.

Stella  1:01:45
Brilliant. Lovely to meet you. Speak to you soon. Bye. Cheers. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai